Introducing stock (#231)
xmartlabs/blog: _posts/2022-10-01-introducing-stock.md

permalink: /blog/introducing-stock/
---

October is a special month for Open Source contributors thanks to [Hacktoberfest] taking place.
In this wonderful month, we are thrilled to announce [**Stock**][stock], Xmartlabs' latest Flutter Open Source Project.

## What is [Stock]? 

[Stock] is a dart package whose main feature is combining different data sources on Flutter.
Most mobile projects need the same thing, to share data with a cloud service. 
For instance, it could be a Rest API or a real-time service like [Firebase Database][firebase_rtd] or [Supabase].
If this is your case, this blog may be helpful for you.

Stock is based on the repository pattern, one of the most used patterns in mobile.
A repository uses different data sources, we usually use a remote and a local data source.
We created [Stock] to make this process smoother. It allows you to combine these data sources and get one data `Stream` containing its states.
Furthermore, if you only use a remote source, Stock can be used as a local cache, improving your app experience in just a few lines of code.

[IMAGEN ISA]

## Should I consider caching the network data? 

> [Stock] exists because of the need to add a cache. It could be a memory or disk cache, but that's the point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Stock] exists because of the need to add a cache. It could be a memory or disk cache, but it doesn't really matter which type are you using, instead it only matters the need of one.
```

You may ask, do I need a cache in my app?

From my perspective, that's an excellent question, and one that should be asked.
Nowadays, the internet connection is good in most places, and phone resources have never been better, so why waste my time adding a local cache?

The answer is simple: you are not wasting time, you are saving it.
The cache allows you to leverage the app experience, removing ugly loading indicators, adding better transitions, and, in the end, making your user happier.

On the other hand, having a stream that emits the data changes helps us improve our code, avoid issues, and have consistency in our app.

Some services, like Supabase, provide a data stream.
However, creating this stream might not be that straightforward if we use a remote service, like a Rest API.
We can do it, but it could become a headache.

> With [Sock], getting a data stream is trivial, that's why you should consider adding it to your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [Stock], getting a data stream is trivial, that's why you should consider adding it to your project.
```
